README.md, before:

# Try Out Development Containers: Go

This is a sample project that lets you try out the **[VS Code Remote - Containers](https://aka.ms/vscode-remote/containers)** extension in a few easy steps.

> **Note:** If you're following the quick start, you can jump to the [Things to try](#things-to-try) section. 

## Setting up the development container

Follow these steps to open this sample in a container:

1. If this is your first time using a development container, please follow the [getting started steps](https://aka.ms/vscode-remote/containers/getting-started).

2. If you're not yet in a development container:
   - Clone this repository.
   - Press <kbd>F1</kbd> and select the **Remote-Containers: Open Folder in Container...** command.
   - Select the cloned copy of this folder, wait for the container to start, and try things out!

## Things to try

Once you have this sample opened in a container, you'll be able to work with it like you would locally.

Some things to try:

1. **Edit:**
   - Open `server.go`
   - Try adding some code and check out the language features.
2. **Terminal:** Press <kbd>ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>shift</kbd>+<kbd>\`</kbd> and type `uname` and other Linux commands from the terminal window.
2. **Build, Run, and Debug:**
   - Open `server.go`
   - Add a breakpoint (e.g. on line 22).
   - Press <kbd>F5</kbd> to launch the app in the container.
   - Once the breakpoint is hit, try hovering over variables, examining locals, and more.
   - Continue, then open a local browser and go to `http://localhost:9000` and note you can connect to the server in the container.
3. **Forward another port:**
   - Stop debugging and remove the breakpoint.
   - Open `server.go`
   - Change the server port to 5000. (`portNumber := "5000"`)
   - Press <kbd>F5</kbd> to launch the app in the container.
   - Press <kbd>F1</kbd> and run the **Remote-Containers: Forward Port from Container...** command.
   - Select port 5000.
   - Click "Open Browser" in the notification that appears to access the web app on this new port.
  
## Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions. Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA-bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., label, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

## License

Copyright © Microsoft Corporation All rights reserved.<br />
Licensed under the MIT License. See LICENSE in the project root for license information.

Commit message:

Update to show workspace hack.

README.md, after:

# Try Out Development Containers: Go

This is a sample project that lets you try out the **[VS Code Remote - Containers](https://aka.ms/vscode-remote/containers)** extension in a few easy steps.

> **Note:** If you're following the quick start, you can jump to the [Things to try](#things-to-try) section. 

## Setting up the development container

Follow these steps to open this sample in a container:

1. If this is your first time using a development container, please follow the [getting started steps](https://aka.ms/vscode-remote/containers/getting-started).

2. If you're not yet in a development container:
   - Clone this repository.
   - Press <kbd>F1</kbd> and select the **Remote-Containers: Open Folder in Container...** command.
   - Select the cloned copy of this folder, and wait for the container to start.
   - Press <kbd>F1</kbd> and select the **Workspaces: Open Workspace...**
   - Select `.vscode-remote-try-go.code-workspace`, and wait for workspace to open.
   - Open a `bash` terminal from the terminal window. Press <kbd>ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>shift</kbd>+<kbd>\`</kbd>
   - Try things out!

## Things to try

Once you have this sample opened in a container, you'll be able to work with it like you would locally.

Some things to try:

1. **Edit:**
   - Open `cmd/server/main.go`
   - Try adding some code and check out the language features.
2. **Terminal:** Press <kbd>ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>shift</kbd>+<kbd>\`</kbd>
   - Type `uname` and other Linux commands from the terminal window.
   - Notice that the terminal has a current working directory of `/go/src/vscode-remote-try-go`.
   - Type `go env` and notice that the gopath has been configured to `/go`
3. **Build, Run, and Debug:**
   - Run `make install-dependencies` from the terminal window to ensure that any dependencies have been resolved. This example uses dep and will place dependencies in the `vendor` folder. Examine the `Makefile` for other options.
   - Open `cmd/server/main.go`
   - Add a breakpoint (e.g. on line 22).
   - Press <kbd>F5</kbd> to launch the app in the container.
   - Once the breakpoint is hit, try hovering over variables, examining locals, and more.
   - Continue, then open a local browser and go to `http://localhost:9000` and note you can connect to the server in the container.
4. **Forward another port:**
   - Stop debugging and remove the breakpoint.
   - Open `cmd/server/main.go`
   - Change the server port to 5000. (`portNumber := "5000"`)
   - Press <kbd>F5</kbd> to launch the app in the container.
   - Press <kbd>F1</kbd> and run the **Remote-Containers: Forward Port from Container...** command.
   - Select port 5000.
   - Click "Open Browser" in the notification that appears to access the web app on this new port.
  
## Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions. Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA-bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., label, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

## License

Copyright © Microsoft Corporation All rights reserved.<br />
Licensed under the MIT License. See LICENSE in the project root for license information.
